Now, we're gonna make the journal
card actually do something.
So let's do that.
There we go.
So what we wanna do here is on click,
we want to create a new journal entry, and
then navigate to the editor page in
which you can edit that journal entry.
And all that needs to happen without
asking the user for anything.
So we're not gonna show model
what's the name of your journal?
Well, our journals don't have names, and
I know that cuz we wrote the scheme, and
they literally don't have names.
So we don't need any information and
they don't have anything unique
about them other than the IDs.
So we could give them the same
content as well as a starting point,
which is exactly what we're going to do.
So it's just gonna be like a default
journal entry that says, New Entry,
and from ther, you can go and
start editing it.
So let's do that.
First things first is we need to set up
an onClick inside of our NewEntryCard.
How do we set up an onClick
on a server component?
Anybody know?
>> You use client thing how to do that.
>> You can,
you have to make it a client component.
So now we've got to turn
it into a client component.
So if you don't know what this is,
you actually do know what this is.
It's every React component you've
ever made in your entire life,
that's what this is.
Every component we've made up
until this point was different,
it was a server component.
It tricked you, it made you think you were
writing React components where you were
not, you're writing
React server components.
This is exactly what you thought it was,
it's a regular React component.
Now, we can use hooks,
we can do anything that you could
have done in any React component.
Whereas in something like EntryCard,
you cannot write a hook in here,
you cannot do any of that stuff,
it's just not possible.
The other thing is,
because this is a client component,
you cannot make this async.
You cannot do that,
that is not gonna work.
So everything has its own purpose.
This is gonna be a client component
because we need interactivity.
Interactivity requires JavaScript,
JavaScript means it's gonna run on client.
So let's do that.
So onClick,
we want to be able to do something.
So we'll say, onClick, We're going to,
let's just make a function up
here that says handleOnClick.
Cool, that was passed out here.
So far so good, so onClick,
we want to be able to
make an API call and
create a new journal entry.
So it's a few things we have to do.
One, we need a API to even hit to
make a new entry, that's one thing.
Two, we need a function
that calls that API, right?
So we got to make both of those.
So let's start with the actual API,
and then we'll come back and
we'll make the function.
And then we'll bring it in here and
we'll tie it all together.
So to make an API,
we just gotta go into app/api,
which we already have, and
just make a new folder.
And we're gonna call
this the journal folder,
so it'll be /api/journal.
And inside of here,
if you make a route.ts,
that's a very specific name,
just like you have to make a page.
In the API, you have to make a route file.
This is saying,
I now have a route for /api/journal.
And inside this route, I want someone
to be able to create something.
Usually, the ACP for
creating something is a post.
So all I have to do here
is export a function
called POST, put a capital letters.
And this is going to allow me to,
This is basically
enabling /api/journal POST,
like a post request to that route.
So for this route, I'm gonna say,
what do I need to create a journal?
Let's look at the schema,
I need a userId, I need some content.
I don't need an analysis, that's optional.
So we're not gonna actually use it for
content, and it's not unique, so
we can just make some content out,
but we do need the userId.
So we need to get the user's information.
Luckily for us,
we already have a utility function for
that, and it's called getUserByClerkID.
This works in the API's functions as well
because we didn't explicitly say it,
but this all file is only
being used on the server side.
This is not being used on a client.
If you try to use this on the client,
it will, for sure,
100% not work because
these are node modules.
How do I know that?
Always I know principle
doesn't work on a client.
I know this auth function was meant
to work on the server from clerk.
There is a package you can install
called server only to ensure your
stuff only runs on the server.
I'm not gonna do that, you just import it
and it basically will error out if you try
to bring anything from
this file into the client.
It'll error out,
not to be confused with doing something
like this, which is called use server.
That's only useful for
creating server actions,
which I don't think we're gonna be
doing because I don't feel the need to.
There's a lot going on there.
[LAUGH] I know it's very confusing,
but that's just how it is.
Anyway, we got the user, and
now we want to be able to create an entry.
So let's do that.
So we'll say, entry = await,
let's bring in our
prisma.journalEntry.create, like so.
And then we wanna create with this data,
this data is gonna be userId,
it's gonna be user.id.
You do that.
The other way you can do this is
you can say, user, pass an object,
say, connect, pass another object,
id, and you can say, user.id.
You can do that too.
This is like you specifically
connecting this user to this entry.
But why am I gonna do all
that when I can do this?
So I'm just gonna do that.
So we got the userId, it's freaking out,
cuz it's like, hey, you forgot something,
you're missing something,
you're missing content.
So I'm gonna add content, and every new
entry is just gonna have the same content.
Write about your day, something like that.
This needs a comma.
Cool, so we got that,
satisfied all the needs there.
We have our entry, and
now we can just send this back with
a return NextResponse that you got
to import from NextServer, dot json.
And I typically always send back an object
with a data property with the data that
I'm sending back.
That's just how I've always done it,
you can do whatever you want.
I prefer to send back an object
with the same key on it so
I could have some predictable code on the
frontend that's looking for the same key.
If I just send back to entry by default,
that object's gonna have different keys on
it, another route's gonna
have different keys on it.
It's just better just to be like, I know
that's gonna be on the data property,
let me just grab it, so.
Any questions on that?
And also, because the middleware
is protecting all of our routes,
we can also assume that you can't access
this unless you're logged in as well
because the middleware won't let you.
Cool, all right, so we got that,
now what we wanna do is make
a function that will call this API.
So I'm gonna go to my utils,
make a new file, I'm gonna call it api.ts.
I'm gonna make a new function here
called createNewEntry, like so.
And we're gonna use fetch here,
which is a slightly modified version
of fetch that Next.js modify.
We don't need to worry
about those modifications.
But one big difference is that
fetch now uses the request standard
object that's built into the web,
so we'll be using that.
So I was gonna make a utility
function that creates a URL for us.
Remember, fetch,
you can't pass in the relative URL.
So you have to pass in the full path URL,
even on localhost.
So I could just hardcode that, I could
just say, HTTP localhost slash whatever.
But what about when I'm not on localhost,
if it's hardcoded?
So I want that to be dynamic.
So I'm gonna make a function
that dynamically does that.
So I'll just say const createURL, and
then that's just gonna take
in a URL path that you want.
And then it's just going
to return, let's just say,
window.location.origin + path.
So cuz our API is always gonna
be on whatever website we're
on slash API slash whatever.
So window.location.origin,
it's always gonna give you the full
URL that you're currently on.
And no slashes after, right?
So if I go to another website here,
it's just gonna give me github.com.
Cool, okay, so we got that.
Now, we can go back to this function,
createNewEntry,
and I guess I got that backwards.
There we go, what I was doing there.
Now, we can say, const res = await,
make this async.
This will be fetch.
And then inside of fetch,
I'm gonna do a new request,
like this, request takes in a URL.
So the URL that I want is createURL,
like so, with /api/journal.
That's the route we just made.
The second argument to request
is an object for configuration.
So method is gonna be POST, and
then body, this is going to be,
we don't actually have to
send anything up here,
because in our route,
we already just hardcode the defier.
We don't even need to send a body here,
but if you were to send a body,
just make sure you JSON.stringify first.
So stringify, Stringify.
Make sure you stringify whatever
thing you were gonna send up here.
We don't really need it, so
I'm just gonna do that,
and then I can say,
if res.ok, then return res.
Or actually, I'll just say,
const data = await res.json,
that's a promise, and
then I'll return the data,
.data cuz I always send back data.
And if it's not okay, we're not
gonna worry about errors right now,
we'll do error handling later.
I could just do all my
error handling at once,
because then I found out if I just
piecemeal the error handling,
it'd be different for
every single function that I do.
Where it's just creating a unified error
handling system with appropriate messages
and status codes,
you gotta think about it like that.
Not just like, this time,
we'll handle this function, and this time,
we'll handle this function,
it'll just be different everywhere you go.
You gotta take it as a system approach.
So I like to think about that entirely and
later.
So we're good for now.
All right, so we'll return that data,
we have create new entry.
This should work, hopefully.
And let's go see what happens.
Cool, so
let's head over to our NewEntryCard.
Onclick we will say, async,
let's await createNewEntry, like this.
And we don't need to get
the return value here.
The reason we don't need the return value
is because we can't do anything with it.
There's literally nothing we can do.
This component doesn't render
all the entries on the page, so
having access to that return
entry here means nothing.
You might say, well, what if we just had
a function in here that we can call that
says, onClick, and
then we pass in the value there?
We can't do that because this NewEntryCard
component is being rendered
in a server component here.
And you can't pass functions as
properties to server components and
client components because they can't
be serialized over the Internet.
So that won't work, so
there really is no point of trying
to get the return value of the API call.
And you'll see we'll
run into a UI problem,
where it's like the screen won't
update until you hit refresh.
And we'll talk about how we can fix that.
But that's because we're fetching
the data on the server in one place, and
then we're updating the data on
the client in another place.
Whereas before, you probably use
something like React, what is it?
React Query or SWR,
where you're mutating and
fetching all in the same
place on the frontend.
So you do wanna get the return value and
update the cache and do all this stuff.
These two things don't
share the same cache.
We're literally getting
data on the server and
then we're doing stuff on the frontend.
So it doesn't work that way,
they don't know about each other.
There's no JavaScript on the frontend for
this component at all.
It's just HTML, whereas this component
has tons of JavaScript on the frontend.
So, Cool, okay, so we have that.
And then after this, what we wanna
do is we wanna do a redirect,
but we don't wanna use redirects.
We want to use router, so we're bringing
in useRouter from NextNavigation.
Inside of here,
we'll say router = useRouter, like so.
After we create this,
we'll just say router.push
to /journal/ and
we need the ID of the journal.
So I guess in this case, we will get the
data here only because we need to route to
it, but not because we're
trying to show it on the page.
So like that.
So router.push, the router is just a,
I really like what Next.js do here,
they're just abstracting around.
They're just leveraging the web, they're
like, there's already a good router in
the web, let's just make
a wrapper around it, useRouter.
If you've ever used the HTML5 push
state router, that's what this is.
It's just a stack, it's just an array
of routes, and you're pushing to it,
which means go to it.
And when you go back,
you pop, it's very simple.
So this is the equivalent of saying,
go here, right?
So you could replace it if you wanted to.
And basically, it will go to it,
and then it will replace
the route that you're on
now with this new entry.
So when you go back,
you won't go back here,
you'll go back to one that's before this.
So you're not creating a new instance,
a new space in the stack,
you're replacing the space in the stack,
but we're not gonna do that.
That's useful for something else.
If you had a modal attached to a route,
and when someone hits back,
you don't want them to
go back to the modal.
You want them to go back to
the page before the modal so
you would do a replace, not a push.
It's a lot to think about,
well, let's see what we broke.
[LAUGH] All right, all right,
okay, so well, if this works,
for sure, what's gonna happen
is we're gonna get a 404 cuz
we don't have that route set up for
Journal ID.
So that's what we should see.
So we click this, it worked,
it did exactly what I was supposed to do.
So you can see you got the ID here,
and it went there, and it's 404.
And just to verify like we always do,
we can go to npx prisma studio,
load that thing up, and
click this tab here.
And you can see,
we do have a journal entry now.
And it has our default
content right about your day.
Pretty cool, any questions on that?
Yes.
>> Could you show the createNewEntry thing
in the utils API?
>> Absolutely, there you go.
So basically, what this is doing,
it's weird looking cuz I'm
passing a function in another function,
in another function.
So it's weird,
I guess I could have not done it that way.
But yeah, so this creates the URL,
this creates the request, and
this creates the fetch.
>> We don't need any credentials for
the fetch because this is all
happening on the server, right?
>> This is actually
happening on the client.
And there are credentials being passed or
cookies.
Cookies are passed automatically, so
we don't have to manually pass them.
Yeah, but I think Kurt also includes
a JSON web token in the local stores
that you can use yourself
if you want to do that, but
the cookies are being
passed automatically.
And then what's happening is the cookies
are being passed automatically,
which then, because the route that
we're hitting is not protected, or
it is protected, right here,
this middleware is checking that cookie.
You'd be like, yeah, they're good to go.
And then our function runs, so
then our function comes here.
This function then runs.
And then there's another cookie
check here, so it text a cookie,
then it goes to clerk, comes back
with a user, and then our code runs.
Yeah, there's a lot going on there.